Refine animation property documentation (#43983)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/reference/properties/animation/index.md

## Examples

> [!NOTE]
> Animating [CSS box model](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Box_model) properties is discouraged as it leads to layout reflow and repaints. Animating any box model property is inherently CPU-intensive; consider animating the [transform](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Properties/transform) property instead.

> ### Basic usage: a sun rise

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Basic usage: a sunrise
```

> In this example, we demonstrate the basic usage of the `animate` shorthand by animating a yellow sun across a light blue sky. The sun rises

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, we demonstrate basic usage of the `animate` shorthand by animating a yellow sun across a light blue sky. The sun rises
```

to the center of the viewport and then falls out of sight.

#### HTML

> We include one element: our sun.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We include a single {{htmlelement("div")}} element to represent our sun.
```

```html
<div class="sun"></div>
```

#### CSS

> We start by creating the sun and the sky. The sky is the root of the HTML document. We hide any content that is outside the viewport, which in our case will be any part of the sun below the horizon, by setting the {{cssxref("overflow")}} to hidden, and use the {{cssxref("justify-content")}} property to center the sun in the background. We make the sun yellow, declaring the {{cssxref("height")}} to be the height of the viewport at `100vh`, and setting the width to be the same as the height by setting the {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} to `1`. We turn the square into a circle with the {{cssxref("border-radius")}} property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We start by creating the sun and the sky. The sky is the {{cssxref(":root")}} of the HTML document. We hide any content that is outside the viewport, which in our case will be any part of the sun below the horizon, by setting the {{cssxref("overflow")}} to hidden. We also use the {{cssxref("justify-content")}} property to center the sun in the background. We make the sun yellow, declare its {{cssxref("height")}} to be the height of the viewport (`100vh`), and set its width to equal its height by setting the {{cssxref("aspect-ratio")}} to `1`. We turn the square `<div>` into a circle using the {{cssxref("border-radius")}} property.
```

```css
:root {
  overflow: hidden;
  background-color: lightblue;
  display: flex;
  justify-content: center;
}

.sun {
  background-color: yellow;
  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1;
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate sun-rise;
}
```

> Next, we create a CSS {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} animation that will push the element on which it is applied down past the viewport and then return the element to its default position using [CSS transforms](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Transforms):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we define some animation {{cssxref("@keyframes")}} that will push the element on which they are applied down past the viewport and then return the element to its default position using [CSS transforms](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Transforms):
```

```css

> @keyframes sun-rise {

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@keyframes sunrise {
```

Reviewer: Also needs changing in the `animation` declaration.

  from {
    transform: translateY(110vh);
  }
  to {
    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}
```

> The last step is to apply the animation! We use the `animation` shorthand property to apply the `sun-rise` keyframe animation to the `.sun`; setting each iteration of the infinite iterations to take 4 seconds, with the direction of the animation alternating between each iteration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last step is to apply the animation! We use the `animation` shorthand property to apply the `sunrise` keyframe animation to the `.sun` `<div>`. The animation is set to play for infinite iterations, with each one lasting 4 seconds; the animation direction alternates with each iteration:
```

```css
.sun {
  animation: 4s linear 0s infinite alternate sun-rise;
}
```

#### Results

> {{EmbedLiveSample('Basic usage: a sun rise')}}

Reviewer: Awww, this is just crying out for the entire viewport to darken as the sun goes down, and then brighten as it comes up again. But I appreciate that this would make the example too complicated for basic usage.

### Applying multiple animations

> This example demonstrates applying multiple, comma-separated animations to a single element. Expanding on the previous example, with a sun that rises and falls on a lightblue background, here we will gradually rotate the sun through a rainbow of colors. The timing of the sun's position and color are independent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates applying multiple animations to a single element. Expanding on the previous example, with a sun that rises and falls on a light blue background, here we will gradually rotate the sun through a rainbow of colors. The timing of the sun's position and color are independent.
```

"comma-separated" made the sentence read weirdly, with that detail feeling shoe-horned in. Plus, you state that syntax detail near the end of the example, so you don't need to say it here as well.

  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
}

> @keyframes rise {

Reviewer: `sunrise`, for consistency with the first and last examples?

    transform: translateY(0);
  }
}
```

> We include the same HTML and CSS as in the previous example, and add a second `@keyframe` animation that adds a {{cssxref("filter")}} that rotates the hue through all the values using the {{cssxref("hue-rotate()")}} filter function:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We include the same HTML and CSS as in the previous example, and add a second set of animation `@keyframes` to apply a {{cssxref("filter")}} that rotates the hue through all possible values using the {{cssxref("hue-rotate()")}} filter function:
```

The `hue-rotate()` link doesn't work, BTW.

}
```

> We then apply the two animations to our sun. Multiple animations are separated by commas, each animation's parameters are set independently

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We then apply the two animations to our sun. Multiple animations are separated by commas, and each animation's parameters are set independently
```

}
```

We then apply the two animation to our sun. Multiple animations are separated by commas, each animation's parameters are set independently

```css
.sun {
  animation:
    4s linear 0s infinite alternate rise,
    24s linear 0s infinite psychedelic;
}
```

#### Results

{{EmbedLiveSample('Applying multiple animations')}}

### Cascading multiple animations

> This example demonstrates what happens when multiple animations define values for the same property. This example expands upon the [basic usage](#basic_ usage_a_sun_rise) example, with two animations applied that both set a {{cssxref("transform")}} value.

Author: ```suggestion
This example demonstrates what happens when multiple animations define values for the same property. This example expands upon the [basic usage](#basic_usage_a_sun_rise) example, with two animations applied that both set a {{cssxref("transform")}} value.
```

  border-radius: 50%;
  height: 100vh;
  aspect-ratio: 1 / 1;
}
```

> We use the same HTML and CSS as in the first example, including the original `rise` animation, and a second, `bounce` animation. The two animations declare values for the same property:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We use the same HTML and CSS as in the first example, including the original `sunrise` animation, and a second animation named `bounce`. The two animations declare values for the same property:
```

The original animation was called `sun-rise`, not `rise`, plus in an earlier suggestion, I requested you change it to `sunrise` because `sun-rise` is grammatically incorrect.

}
```

> We apply both animations to the sun. When two animations apply different values to the same property, animations declared later in the cascade will override the properties of previously declared animations. In this case, the `transform` value on the `bounce` animation 'wins' the [cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Introduction#css_animations_and_the_cascade), and 'overwrites' the transform set by `rise`, so the sun will only move horizontally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We apply both animations to the sun. When two animations apply different values to the same property, animations declared later in the cascade override previously-declared animations. In this case, the `transform` value on the `bounce` animation "wins" the [cascade](/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascade/Introduction#css_animations_and_the_cascade), and overrides the transform set by `sunrise`, so the sun will only move horizontally.
```

```css
.sun {
  animation:

>     4s linear 0s infinite alternate rise,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    4s linear 0s infinite alternate sunrise,
```

    4s linear 0s infinite alternate bounce;
}
```

#### Results

{{EmbedLiveSample('Cascading Multiple Animations')}}

The sun bounces between the

> left and right sides of the viewport. The sun remains in the viewport even

Reviewer: ```suggestion
left- and right-hand sides of the viewport. The sun remains in the viewport even
```

> though a rise animation is defined. The rise animation's transform property

Reviewer: ```suggestion
though the `sunrise` animation is defined. The `sunrise` animation's transform property
```

> is 'overwritten' by the bounce animation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is overridden by the bounce animation.
```
